So let's talk about pointers.
Pointers in Go, are a variable that holds
onto the memory location of that variable
instead of a copy of its value.
And so kind of what we just saw,
demonstrated by trying to modify that
describe group function is that we're
just modifying a surface level
copy of that variable's value.
So it might be changed temporarily,
but it's actually not going into that
memory location and modifying
that variable in a permanent way.
To do that,
we need to add a little bit more syntax,
and we need to use something
called a pointer type.
So notice on line 6 and 7, we're creating
placeholders for two different variables.
The first is a variable called
name which is set to a string.
And the second is a variable called name
pointer, which is also set to a string,
but it has a little asterisk
before the word string.
And so this is telling Go that instead of
just giving me a place to store a string
as a variable, I need to provide
a little more information.
I need to actually store a memory
location into this name pointer variable,
not just the name of a string.
Cool, so I'm gonna take this exact code
and move over to our pointers.go file.
And we'll see what prints out
in the console when we have both
pointer types and normal string types.
Cool, so
the top here, here's a copy of the code
we were just looking at in the slide.
I'm going to change my target
directory here to run our
Section seven pointers,
code pointers.go file.
So what we're printing right now
is these placeholder values.
We haven't assigned any value
to these actual variables.
We just have placeholders for name and
a name pointer which has the asterisk.
And we're asking our console
to print out both of these.
So see that our name variable is
giving us back that empty string,
which based on how Go defines
default values that makes sense.
And then for the pointer value,
we're seeing this nil.
And the nil indicates that this
pointer value is expecting
an actual address in memory,
not just an empty string,
this is a special kind of variable that
we need to provide more information for.
So let's dig a little deeper here.
[COUGH] If
we were to actually assign
some variables here,
our first one is Beyonce, and
our name pointer, let's go back to Lizzo.
You'll notice I'm already
getting an error.
But if I want to then go ahead and
print these out again, you'll see
that we're gonna get a type error.
We cannot use Lizzo,
which is a type string as the same
thing as the type pointer string.
So fundamentally these
are two very different types,
either a memory address location or
a string value that's a copy of what
lives in that memory address location.
So in order to indicate that
instead of just a string,
we actually want it to be a memory
address, we use the ampersand.
And so on the right-hand side here, I'm
going to say, instead of just a string,
I'm going to use ampersand.
And I'm gonna steal the variable name here
since we have it conveniently defined
right above it.
So I'm saying okay, the name is
gonna be set to the string Beyonce,
but the name pointer, go get the address,
read through this pointer to find
the address and
give me back what that looks like.
And so now you'll see the two variables
have been modified a little bit,
that first one is still
typical name string, but
that second one is actually
giving me an address now.
So it's not the value, it's
the address of where that value lives.
So now that we know that we have
the address of that particular variable,
if we actually wanna read through and
find the value that lives in the address.
We're gonna kinda deference the variable
we just defined using that
asterisk one more time.
Cool, so let's kinda talk through all
the stuff that has happened one more time.
At the top of our main function,
we're establishing two different
placeholders for variables, one of which
is going to be your typical string.
And one is going to be a pointer
to where a string variable lives.
So we just want to access the value of the
variable, we can assign it to a string.
But this ampersand here actually
indicates we wanna read through and
find the address.
So I like to think of
the ampersand as a forward address,
get the address of that variable.
And then lastly,
let's say when we print this variable,
we see that big convoluted address and
we actually want that value back.
We need to use the star once again and
say okay, so
I know you're an address, go read through
that address and give me back the value.
So it's kinda this relationship between do
we have the address and what do we want?
Or do we need the address and
how do we get it?
So ampersand for get the address star for
I have the address, give me the value.
One of the main differences to
keep in mind is that the star
either lives next to the type name or
the variable name.
If the star lives next to the type name,
that indicates that it is a pointer type.
So the only thing that this variable
is going to accept as it's value
is an address.
If the star is next to the variable name,
that means that it is
a pointer variable value.
So it started as an address, and
now you want that value back.
And then to read through the variable
to see the address, ampersand for
A, go find the address.
And that ampersand lives next
to the pointer variable, name.